for our last real people test of the
series we've decided to large it and you
can't get much larger than this big
lorry our two testers are both lorry
drivers and for a change we've decided
to put them into two small cars our two
cars this week may be small but
Volkswagens new Polo GTI and protons
compact GTI
certainly make up for it in style and
performance we've been waiting years for
a hot version of Volkswagens polo now
that it's finally arrived let's see how
it compares to protons compact with its
Lotus 2 suspension renamed for nearly no
and I'm a lorry driver my name's Phil
I Drive a truck full of him first to
take to the road is Neal let's see what
he makes of the proton in the trucks I
tend to get a stiff neck and shoulder
thought think with this I could probably
quite easily drive it
so wherever them back with no problem
the driving positions God and the seats
comfy the dust layouts all right when
you're turning off your flooring it a
bit too hard you're going to see any bit
of wheelspin when you're turning other
than that handling brilliantly I think
it was about ten years younger I'd
probably buy one while its mate is still
blasting round in the proton let's see
what self-confessed VW man Phil thinks
of the Polo
yeah the seats already feel very firm
that quite pub seats
everything's in the right place and yeah
legroom
not about the legroom in the front when
you get out of the truck it's like
getting in slight get into a go-kart
getting back into something that likes
of this everything you just feel very
low to the ground
then appear the acceleration the the
steering on the cars actually varies it
is a very nice steer and it's not over
light it's not too heavy
I think it's designed by racer which I
think it's designed for the younger for
the light for the 20 light just passed
the test between 1825 something like
that I think I think the more more
sporty well had to drivers should be
about midway through their tests by now
so they should be changing cars but in
the mean time I can't resist it it's a
big lorry you got a vago
time then for a swap Neal seem to be
having fun in the proton so can the
Volkswagen match up to it first
impression of this car is I do not like
it go are the pedal physicians cannot
get comfy doesn't respond straight away
I think the wife would probably like
this more than the proton literally
because the five doors and it would be
easier for her and at the end of the day
so is the almonds choice and the proton
with all of its Eastern promise tempt
fill away from his Volkswagen quite
quite any picker quite good on handling
she's not over impressed with the the
overall look it's a sporty looking thing
but I think they've gone a little bit
far with the arch gets a little bit
tacky on the arch Kitson the clocks and
it's a cab of fiber lock on the dash
it's slightly slightly better on
acceleration than the ball it's more
responsive than the portal very firm
good seat holder well
I prefer the build quality on them on
the VW Polo I suppose the budget is
coming to a halt so
well I've had a great date driving
lorries and our two guys have had a good
day driving the cars and we now need
your verdict we've got to know which
it's going to be make your choices
yourself what you haven't Paulo was
particle but the protons for me to heck
with practicality what about you
sporty as the proton is I think I'm
going to make the practical choice go
for the Polo the more sensible choice
okay guys well interestingly both of
these are about fourteen and a half
thousand pounds you could get a very
nice secondhand tractor unit for that so
what would you go for proton polo or
tractor unit same price I think we've
got for the tractor unit you can earn a
lot of money with a tractor unit good
point right you do get back to your unit
well for once I'm gonna make a choice
and I can't believe I never thought I
was ever gonna say this but it's gonna
be the proton brings out the hooligan